# Things to Consider

So you now have access to the Plex library. With direct access to the content, you can now determine absolutely if this is the share for you. Here are the things you should test:


## Quantity and Quality

Plex offers a significant amount of information that we can use to evaluate the Plex share. Select a library, and switch from the "Recommended" view to "Library" view. At the top of the screen, you can now see how many total Movie/TV Shows titles they have offered. It's a good idea at this time to scroll through the selection to see if their are titles offered that you want to watch. Hover over the movies that might interest you, and click the three dots on the bottom right of the poster > Get Info. This will show you important information about the file being streamed that you can use to evaluate the quality of the library. Take note of things like the video resolution, bitrate, and file size. In general, the higher/bigger those attributes, the better the quality. Make sure to do this with a variety of old/new titles from different genres to get an idea of the scope of the library. The newest Avengers might be 1080p Remux (30Gb) but everything else that isn't a Hollywood blockbuster might be 1080p at (2GB).

## Location/Peering

Most Plex shares mention their location and upload speed, which is great for determining the max total capability of their server. Unfortunately, the internet is infinitely complex and just because a server has 1Gbit upload, and you have a 1Gbit download doesn't mean you will be able to hit speeds anywhere near that. Location as well as the quality of your ISP/server's network plays a huge role in the speeds you will realistically see. A similar server in Africa might only be upload to you at 2Mbit, while a server few cities away from you might be able to saturate your full 1gbit connection.

For this reason, it is impossible to tell how much speed you will get from an advertised server without getting a trial. So, now that you have a trial, the best way to test everything is to simply play whatever you want. It's a good idea to try to figure out the theoretical max of the server, so you know exactly what you will/won't be able to watch. I do this by playing the highest bitrate file I can find on their server (Get Info for bitrate information). If I'm allowed multiple streams, I'll open multiple browser tabs, the Plex app on my phone, and on my TV to play multiple movies at the same time to mimic the MAX use case. You might not want to watch 30Mbps Remuxes right now, but it doesn't hurt to check if you can in case you want to in the future. To get the smoothest streaming experience, you should optimally be able to hit 2x the average bitrate displayed in the file (to account for spikes). You can get a rough estimate of your speed to our media server by visiting our speed test page

## Time

Another factor that might affect your speed to the server is the time of day. A server has finite resources and you might find that trying to watch a movie when you get home at 6PM is nearly impossible since everyone else is trying to do the same. You might find that in the middle of the night, you are able to watch HQ 4K streams, since no one is using the server, and during the day, everything stutters non-stop. This is usually caused by the server being oversold to maximize profits, similar to what ISPs do. The underlying assumption being that there is no way everyone on the server will be watching at the same time, which is a fair and reasonable one to make and helps reduce cost. You just need to make sure that during the times YOU plan to watch is not the time when everyone else wants to as well.
